3836 terraform provider (#3914)
astronomer/docs: astro/terraform-provider-examples.md

      default_worker_queue_size = "A5"
      contact_emails = ["foo@bar.com", "john@doe.com"]
    }
    ads = {
      name = "ads"
      default_worker_queue_size = "A10"
      contact_emails = ["foo@bar.com", "john@doe.com"]
    }
    ml = {
      name = "ml"
      default_worker_queue_size = "A40"
      contact_emails = ["foo@bar.com", "john@doe.com"]
    }
  }
}

```

</details>

## Example: Create a Workspace per Team

You can use Terraform to script creating a Workspace for multiple Teams. The following example shows how to create a Workspace, Team within that Workspace, and three Deployments for that Team. You can use the full code example in the [Astro Terraform Provider's GitHub](https://github.com/astronomer/terraform-provider-astro/blob/main/examples/scenarios/workspace_per_team.tf) to create multiple teams, following the same pattern.

<details>
<summary><strong>Terraform code example</strong></summary>

Before using the code example, be sure to add your Astro Organization ID for the `organization_id` parameter.

```
/* Workspace Per Team

Team 1 Workspace
- Dev Deployment
- Stage Deployment
- Prod Deployment

*/

terraform {
  required_providers {
    astro = {

>       source = "astronomer/astro"

Reviewer: Customers have complained in the past that they get an error if they don't include a version. @vandyliu did something change to make this not true any more?

Reviewer 2: it should be fine now that it is on the terraform registry

---
title: 'Terraform examples'
sidebar_label: 'Example uses'
id: terraform-provider-examples
description: Explore examples of common Terraform actions or configurations.
---

After you finish your first Terraform initialization, you can begin using Terraform scripts to automate, templatize, or programmatically manage your Astro environments.

## Prerequisites

- [Go](https://go.dev/doc/install) version 1.21 or higher
- [Terraform](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/install) version 1.0 or higher
- Astro Organization Owner [user permissions](user-permissions.md)
- Organization ID

## Example: Import existing resources

> You can import new resources into an existing Deployment or Workspace by adding both an `import` command and defining the new configuration to your Terraform file. Then, use `terraform apply` to add the new configuation.

Author: @vandyliu @sunkickr - this feels wrong, but I took a guess

Reviewer 2: import existing resources such as existing deployments and existing workspaces
once successfully imported, they will be fully managed by terraform and can be updated/deleted by terraform if the terraform configuration changes or the resource is removed from the terraform configuration file

In a Terraform file, add the following configuration.

```
// Import the new configuration to an existing Deployment. After you use `terraform apply` to apply this new configuration once, you can remove this section of code from your Terraform file.
import {
  id = "<your-deployment-ID>" // ID of the existing deployment
  to = astro_deployment.imported_deployment
}
// The new resource configuration.
resource "astro_deployment" "imported_deployment" {
  name                    = "import me"
  description             = "an existing deployment"
  type                    = "DEDICATED"
  cluster_id              = "<your-cluster-ID>"
  contact_emails          = ["preview@astronomer.test"]
  default_task_pod_cpu    = "0.25"
  default_task_pod_memory = "0.5Gi"
  executor                = "KUBERNETES"
  is_cicd_enforced        = true
  is_dag_deploy_enabled   = true
  is_development_mode     = false
  is_high_availability    = true
  resource_quota_cpu      = "10"
  resource_quota_memory   = "20Gi"
  scheduler_size          = "SMALL"
  workspace_id            = "<your-workspace-ID>"
  environment_variables   = []
}
```

</details>

## Example: Define variables with Terraform

> You can define variables in a separate file, and then call it from within other Terraform commands.

Author: @vandyliu  - my guess here is definitely wrong but we need just a little bit more here.

Reviewer 2: I think this makes sense
variables are not specific to our astro terraform provider. they are a more general terraform thing
and can be used like the following to create 3 workspaces
```
resource "astro_workspace" "team_workspaces" {
  for_each = var.teams

  name                  = "${each.value.name} Workspace"
  description           = "${each.value.name} Workspace"
  cicd_enforced_default = true
}
```

<details>
<summary><strong>Define variables in Terraform code example</strong></summary>

```

variable "teams" {
  type = map(object({
    name = string
    default_worker_queue_size = string

>     contact_emails = list

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    contact_emails = list(string)
```

In a Terraform file, add the following configuration.

```
// Import the new configuration to an existing Deployment. After you use `terraform apply` to apply this new configuration once, you can remove this section of code from your Terraform file.
import {
  id = "<your-deployment-ID>" // ID of the existing deployment
  to = astro_deployment.imported_deployment
}
// The new resource configuration.
resource "astro_deployment" "imported_deployment" {
  name                    = "import me"
  description             = "an existing deployment"
  type                    = "DEDICATED"
  cluster_id              = "<your-cluster-ID>"
  contact_emails          = ["preview@astronomer.test"]
  default_task_pod_cpu    = "0.25"
  default_task_pod_memory = "0.5Gi"
  executor                = "KUBERNETES"
  is_cicd_enforced        = true
  is_dag_deploy_enabled   = true
  is_development_mode     = false
  is_high_availability    = true
  resource_quota_cpu      = "10"
  resource_quota_memory   = "20Gi"
  scheduler_size          = "SMALL"
  workspace_id            = "<your-workspace-ID>"
  environment_variables   = []
}
```

</details>

## Example: Define variables with Terraform

> You can define variables in a separate file, and then call it from within other Terraform commands.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can define variables in a separate file and then call it from within other Terraform commands.
```

<details>
<summary><strong>Define variables in Terraform code example</strong></summary>

```

variable "teams" {
  type = map(object({
    name = string
    default_worker_queue_size = string
    contact_emails = list
  }))
  default = {
    finance = {
      name = "finance"
      default_worker_queue_size = "A5"
      contact_emails = ["foo@bar.com", "john@doe.com"]
    }
    ads = {
      name = "ads"
      default_worker_queue_size = "A10"
      contact_emails = ["foo@bar.com", "john@doe.com"]
    }
    ml = {
      name = "ml"
      default_worker_queue_size = "A40"
      contact_emails = ["foo@bar.com", "john@doe.com"]
    }
  }
}

```

</details>

## Example: Create a Workspace per Team

> You can use Terraform to script creating a Workspace for multiple Teams. The following example shows how to create a Workspace, Team within that Workspace, and three Deployments for that Team. You can use the full code example in the [Astro Terraform Provider's GitHub](https://github.com/astronomer/terraform-provider-astro/blob/main/examples/scenarios/workspace_per_team.tf) to create multiple teams, following the same pattern.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can use Terraform to script creating a Workspace for multiple Teams. The following example shows how to create a Workspace, a Team within that Workspace, and three Deployments for that Team. You can use the full code example in the [Astro Terraform Provider's GitHub](https://github.com/astronomer/terraform-provider-astro/blob/main/examples/scenarios/workspace_per_team.tf) to create multiple teams following the same pattern.
```

---
title: 'Terraform examples'
sidebar_label: 'Example uses'
id: terraform-provider-examples
description: Explore examples of common Terraform actions or configurations.
---

:::publicpreview
:::

After you finish your first [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/) initialization, you can begin using Terraform scripts to automate, templatize, or programmatically manage your Astro environments.

## Prerequisites

- [Terraform](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/install) version 1.0 or higher
- Astro Workspace Owner [user permissions](user-permissions.md)
- Organization ID

## Example: Import existing resources

> By adding both an `import` command and defining the configuration to your Terraform file, you can import existing Astro resources, such as Deployments or Workspaces, for Terraform to manage. After you successfully import import them, Terraform fully manages your resources and you can update or delete them by updating the Terraform configuration file.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
By adding both an `import` command and defining the configuration to your Terraform file, you can import existing Astro resources, such as Deployments or Workspaces, for Terraform to manage. After you successfully import them, Terraform fully manages your resources and you can update or delete them by updating the Terraform configuration file.
```

:::tip

Your Terraform file takes the highest priority in defining your Astro resource configuration. This means that when you import resources using Terraform, you need to specify all required fields if your Terraform file is different from any resource configurations that you configured through the Terraform CLI, Astro CLI, Astro API, or Astro UI. If the resources defined in your Terraform file and your actual resources are different, Terraform overrides your resource settings to match the configurations of the resources in your Terraform file.

:::

<details>
<summary><strong> Import existing Deployment as a resource example</strong></summary>

In a Terraform file, add the following configuration.

```
// Import the new configuration to an existing Deployment. After you use `terraform apply` to apply this new configuration once, you can remove this section of code from your Terraform file.
import {
  id = "<your-deployment-ID>" // ID of the existing deployment
  to = astro_deployment.imported_deployment

> }

Reviewer 4: nit spacing

```suggestion
}

```

---
title: 'Terraform examples'
sidebar_label: 'Example uses'
id: terraform-provider-examples
description: Explore examples of common Terraform actions or configurations.
---

:::publicpreview
:::

After you finish your first [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/) initialization, you can begin using Terraform scripts to automate, templatize, or programmatically manage your Astro environments.

## Prerequisites

> - [Go](https://go.dev/doc/install) version 1.21 or higher

Reviewer 2: don't need go for terraform, just need it for development of terraform provider but not actually using it
```suggestion
```

- [Terraform](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/install) version 1.0 or higher
- Astro Workspace Owner [user permissions](user-permissions.md)
- Organization ID

## Example: Import existing resources

> By adding both an `import` command and defining the configuration to your Terraform file, you can import existing Astro resources, such as Deployments or Workspaces, for Terraform to manage. After you successfully import your resources, Terraform can fully manage them and you can update or delete them by updating the Terraform configuration file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By adding both an `import` command and defining the configuration to your Terraform file, you can import existing Astro resources, such as Deployments or Workspaces, for Terraform to manage. After you successfully import your resources, Terraform will fully manage them and you can update or delete them by updating the Terraform configuration file.
```

:::tip

> 

Reviewer 2: I noticed we use the word `Workspace` here but this applies to all resources

> Your Terraform file takes the highest priority in defining your Astro resource configuration. This means that when you import resources using Terraform, you need to specify all required fields if your Terraform file is different from any resource configurations that you configured through the Terraform CLI, Astro CLI, Astro API, or Astro UI. If the Terraform file and your actual Workspace are different, Terraform overrides your Workspace settings to match the configurations in your Terraform file.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Your Terraform file takes the highest priority in defining your Astro resource configuration. This means that when you import resources using Terraform, you need to specify all required fields if your Terraform file is different from any resource configurations that you configured through the Terraform CLI, Astro CLI, Astro API, or Astro UI. If the resources defined in your Terraform file and your actual resources are different, Terraform overrides your resource settings to match the configurations of the resources in your Terraform file.
```

:::

<details>

> <summary><strong> Import resources to an existing Deployment example</strong></summary>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<summary><strong> Import existing Deployment as a resource example</strong></summary>
```

<details>
<summary><strong>Define variables in Terraform code example</strong></summary>

In a Terraform `variables.tf` file, you can define your variables:
```

variable "teams" {
  type = map(object({
    name = string
    default_worker_queue_size = string
    contact_emails = list(string)
  }))
  default = {
    finance = {
      name = "finance"
      default_worker_queue_size = "A5"
      contact_emails = ["foo@bar.com", "john@doe.com"]
    }
    ads = {
      name = "ads"
      default_worker_queue_size = "A10"
      contact_emails = ["foo@bar.com", "john@doe.com"]
    }
    ml = {
      name = "ml"
      default_worker_queue_size = "A40"
      contact_emails = ["foo@bar.com", "john@doe.com"]
    }
  }
}

```

Then, in your Terraform configuration file, `main.tf`, you can refer to those variables to create resources:

```
resource "astro_workspace" "team_workspaces" {
  for_each = var.teams

  name                  = "${each.value.name} Workspace"
  description           = "${each.value.name} Workspace"
  cicd_enforced_default = true
}
```

</details>

## Example: Create a Workspace per Team

> You can use Terraform to script creating a Workspace for multiple Teams. The following example shows how to create a Workspace, a Team within that Workspace, and three Deployments for that Team. You can use the full code example in the [Astro Terraform Provider's GitHub](https://github.com/astronomer/terraform-provider-astro/blob/main/examples/scenarios/workspace_per_team.tf) to create multiple teams following the same pattern.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use Terraform to script creating a Workspace for multiple Teams. The following example shows how to create a Workspace, a Cluster, and three Deployments for that Team. You can use the full code example in the [Astro Terraform Provider's GitHub](https://github.com/astronomer/terraform-provider-astro/blob/main/examples/scenarios/workspace_per_team.tf) to create multiple teams following the same pattern.
```
